<p>Normally, to browse our website which is hosted in a local server(e.g. Apache) we need to write the website path something <i>localhost/blog/index.php</i> which is fine but not much convenient. Beside, this doesn’t look that much like real web address. What if we can access that browser something like, <i>dev.blog.com</i>? Won’t it be great? To achieve this we need to create a virtual host which will virtually make host like <i>dev.blog.com</i> that can be access through our browser. Here are the steps to create a virtual host:</p><br><strong>Step 1.</strong> Open terminal go to <i>/etc/apache2/sites-available</i> directory using the following command<br><br><pre><code>cd /etc/apache2/sites-available</code></pre><br><strong>Step 2.</strong> Open a new file with <i>.conf</i> extension. e.g. blog.conf with the following command<br><br><pre><code>sudo vim blog.conf</code></pre><br><strong>Step 3.</strong> Paste the following code(Root permission required) in the <i>.conf</i> file:<br><br><pre><code>&lt;VirtualHost *:80&gt;        ServerAdmin al.imran.cse@gmail.com        ServerName dev.blog.com#      SetEnv APPLICATION_ENV development#      ServerAlias dev.blog.com#      SetEnv APPLICATION_COUNTRY GBR        DocumentRoot /var/www/blog/public        DirectoryIndex index.php        &lt;Directory /&gt;                Options FollowSymLinks                AllowOverride all        &lt;/Directory&gt;        &lt;Directory /var/www/blog/public&gt;                Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews                AllowOverride all                Order allow,deny                allow from all                Require all granted        &lt;/Directory&gt;        ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/error-blog-fc.log        # Possible values include: debug, info, notice, warn, error, crit,        # alert, emerg.        LogLevel warn        CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/access-click-fc.log combined&lt;/VirtualHost&gt;</code></pre><br><p>Here, <strong>ServerAdmin</strong> is the admin’s contacts. <strong>ServerName</strong> is the url you want to access the site from browser. <strong>DocumentRoot</strong> is the root directory of your project. <strong>&lt;Directory /var/www/blog/public&gt;</strong> here <i>/var/www/blog/public</i> is also my project’s root directory where the index.php file is located</p><br><strong>Step 4.</strong> Close the file and run the following command in terminal to enable the created virtual host: <br><br><pre><code>sudo a2ensite blog.conf</code></pre>Then reload the server with the following command: <br><pre><code>sudo service apache2 reload</code></pre><p>So, the virtual host is created and enabled now. If we enter <i>dev.blog.com</i> in our browser now it won’t show our site yet because the we have created the virtual host but that host is not known by our machine’s browser. To make it known to our machine we have to add our created virtual host’s URL into our host file(this is not required if you have bought a domain). So, let’s continue.</p><br><strong>Step 5.</strong> Open the hosts file at /etc directory<br><br><pre><code>sudo vim /etc/hosts</code></pre> Add the following line in the hosts file:<br><br><pre><code>127.0.0.1 dev.blog.com</code></pre><br><strong>Step 6.</strong> Save and enter <i>dev.blog.com</i> in any browser’s address bar, then HIT!<br><br>Our site is in <i>dev.blog.com</i>!! Your are ready to GO :) 